Welcome to modern web animations.
In this course we are going to learn everything about web animations using only modern browsers, APIs
and no third party libraries.
I'm Ali, your guide for this course.
As a seasoned front end web developer with a passion for creating user interfaces and interactive experiences,
I have spent years building web and mobile applications.
I am also passionate about creating educational content that has been highly rated by thousands.
I am excited to embark on this animation's journey with you.
CSS animations and transitions have been a web development staple for a while, but recently modern
browsers have also introduced new APIs that take web animations to the next level.
These APIs offer developers more control, flexibility, and powerful features for creating even more
impressive and dynamic animations.
By the end of this course, you will be a master of modern Web Animation APIs.
You will have a deep understanding of the new web animations, JavaScript API, scroll driven animations,
and the view Transitions API.
To ensure everyone is on the same page.
We will begin with a refresher on CSS animations and transitions.
This section is valuable for beginners and those who want to brush up their skills.
We are going to discuss everything about CSS animations and transitions in great detail.
Sometimes, however, CSS animations can feel restrictive, especially when it comes to complex animations
or dynamically changing animation properties.
So in the second section we are going to discover the Web Animations JavaScript API.
The Web Animations API unlocks the power of the browser's animation engine for developers.
It allows us to construct animations and control their playback with JavaScript and not only CSS.
This allows for more dynamic animations.
The Web Animations API is one of the most performant ways to animate on the web.
In the third section, we will explore a new feature that was added to CSS animations Animation Timelines.
This exciting feature lets you create animations triggered by scrolling progress or an element's visibility
within the viewport.
This opens the door for creating impressive scroll driven animations without having to load any external
libraries.
Finally, we will delve into the View Transitions API, a powerful new browser tool.
This API simplifies creating smooth, animated transitions between different states of your web pages.
Content.
It can be particularly valuable in single page applications when we need to have an animation, when
we navigate between different routes before the View Transitions API.
These kinds of animations were extremely complicated to achieve.
Some basic HTML, CSS and JavaScript knowledge is the only requirement for this course.
So join modern web animations now and bring your websites to life.